History of Java

  The history of Java is quite fascinating. At the beginning of the existence, Java’s purpose
was to be used for digital devices such as televisions however, the language was suited for a
greater purpose in the world. At first Java was suited for internet programming but currently it is
also used for mobile devices, games, e-business solutions, and much more. The father of Java is
James Gosling who created the following principles of Java with his team: “Simple, Robust,
Portable, Platform-independent, Secured, High Performance, Multithreaded, Architecture Neutral,
Object-Oriented, Interpreted, and Dynamic” (Jaiswal). From the principles, one can easily guess
that Java is much different from procedural languages and brings many advantages in the
programming world.

  The language is super simple to write, compile, and debug. It provides improved software
development productivity when comparing to procedural languages. The reason why is because the
programs are divided into smaller parts called objects that can be extended with new behaviors and
attributes creating a possibility of reusing the code across the applications. Also, with the Java
language, it is easier to maintain the code. The language is platform-independent which in other
words means that it does not need any special software to be installed except for the JVM to be
present on the machine. The language is compiled into bytecode which is then interpreted by JVM
as described earlier. Another advantage of the language is that it is very secure because it does not
have any explicit pointers. The language comes with rich libraries of objects and code developed
during projects (IBM Knowledge Center). Overall, Java is a great and powerful language that is
very useful in today’s world.

Works Cited
Advantages of Java. (n.d.). IBM Knowledge Center.
https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/sl/ssw_aix_72/performance/
advantages_java.html
Jaiswal, S. (n.d.). History of Java - Javatpoint. Retrieved January 22, 2021, from
https://www.javatpoint.com/history-of-java
