JavaFx & GitHub

  To begin a package in Java is used to group classes together that have any sort of relation.
The packages are divided into two categories which consist of build-in-packages which are created
from Java API and user-defined-packages which allow a user to create his or her own packages
(W3Schools). Using Java Package has many advantages. For example, it is good to group related
classes because it makes it easier to locate classes that are related to each other. In addition to that,
using packages makes it easier to provide access control and keep consistent naming conventions
making it easier for the programmer to work with (Jyothi, 2018).

  Going further, A JAR File in Java stands for Java Archive. It is a file in the ZIP format that
is used to group many files into one folder. A user might want to use a JAR file for data
compression, decompressing, archiving, and archive unpacking. It is very good to use for our
Object-Oriented Programming class when there is more than one file needed to submit to keep it
organized and in one place. To create such file, one could open a command prompt window and do
the following: jar cf jar-file input-file(s) (Oracle, 2020).

  JavaFX is an open-source Java based framework that is designed to provide Java
programmers with an ability to develop rich applications that can run across a wide variety of
devices. The intention of JavaFX is to replace Swing as the standard Graphical User Interface
library for Java. Some of the key features that JavaFX has consist of the following: Java APIs,
Prism, FXML and Scene Builder, WebView, Built-in UI controls and CSS, high-performance
media engine, and much more. The framework can be used to create graphical user interfaces on
desktop, web, mobile platforms and much more. Some downsides of JavaFX though include a
smaller community support when comparing to Swing and the startup time of the application is a
little longer than the one for Swing applications (Oracle, 2013).

  GitHub is a code hosting platform that many programmers use for version control and
collaboration. Many programmers use it to work with others on projects. It is a great platform that
allows a user to create repositories and store all files on there. One can create files on GitHub
directly in the repository or push them into the repository using a command line function. Using
GitHub is pretty simple, and it brings many advantages for those who work in the programming
world. It is the best for collaboration and contribution to open-source projects. It is a very good
place to store a portfolio a student creates at school to show off to future employers (GitHub,
2020).


Works Cited
Hello world. (2020, July 24). Retrieved March 15, 2021, from
https://guides.github.com/activities/hello-world/#what
Java packages. (n.d.). Retrieved March 15, 2021, from
https://www.w3schools.com/java/java_packages.asp
Jyothi, V. (2018). Advantages of using packages in Java. Retrieved March 15, 2021, from
https://www.tutorialspoint.com/Advantages-of-using-packages-in-Java
Oracle. (2020). Using jar files: The basics. Retrieved March 15, 2021, from
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/deployment/jar/basicsindex.html
Release: Javafx 2.2.21. (2013, March 14). Retrieved March 15, 2021, from
https://docs.oracle.com/javafx/2/overview/jfxpub-overview.htm
